Now, uh, you know, along this line of government
limitations upon on the development portion, was
Sea Grant a good idea or a bad idea? Well, I—perhaps
it's too early, really, to tell. There seems to be,
uh, there seems to be no question about land grant
as being beneficial, but probably three or four
years after it started, it didn't look like it was
going to be successful. But I can conceive of Sea
Grant being equally successful.
In fact, I just finished a little small study, one
that where I needed a couple months of work by
somebody, and it funded that. Total amount,
though, for a couple months of work, counting
overhead and everything else, nothing for me. It
was a couple thousand dollars, so it's not very...
None of the government things seem very
cost-effective. But at least a lot of things get
done that are worthwhile, I think. I would think
that in another ten years we can look back at Sea
Grant and and see whether it's cost-effective or
not, probably. There seems to be a move on the part
of government to concentrate almost all funding
agencies for oceanography under one central
head. Probably the Department of Commerce. Do you
favor that? No. It's the Russian system. The
Russian system,
funding is organized bureaucratically. And
if you have a good idea, funding agency doesn't
like it, you're dead. With several funding
agencies, then you may find more people, somebody
else who realizes this may be an important idea.
I'd rather have several competitive. The
congressmen tend to think that you should, for
efficiency, have everything going out of one
channel, but they haven't recognized that that
they could do the same thing with automobiles,
require only one automobile, no choice in that.
And they fail to recognize that monopolies are not
very efficient. Witness the post office, the rail
transport,
the Social Security, above all else, the TVA, you
add them all up. They pay no taxes, but they're
always getting their deficits filled. Okay. Now,
the next several questions, the last several
questions I have to ask you, concern really the
environment and the ocean. What's your reaction
to the environment movement? Soft-headed. The
people who complain the most about the
environment really don't think the problem
through. They're against everything. I never
hear them in favor of anything. For example,
they're against oil. because of the oil spills.
They're against the offshore drilling here,
failing to recognize that the offshore drilling
has very minor spills. In fact, to put it in a
positive way, 99.98%
of the oil that's produced offshore comes to shore
in the pipeline. That's a pretty high efficiency,
higher purity than ivory soap. In contrast, If it
isn't produced offshore, it's brought in by
tankers, and the losses are very much greater than
tankers. The Argo merchant here spilled oil. He
came from the Caribbean and came all the way up here
to spill it. Saudi Arabia, oil was spilled at
Cornwall in England, where oil will never be
produced. So the environmentalists ought to be
pushing for offshore drilling if they want to
preserve their environment. The
environmentalists are against burning coal and
they're against strip mining. If they mine the
coal from underground, their fatalities are
orders in magnitude higher than the fatalities
and injuries from strip mining.
They object to the strip mining because it spoils
the scenery. They've never, if you ask the
environmentalists, they probably have never
been out to Wyoming, Montana, in the remote areas
where they... where the cold is the thickest and
the overburden the thinnest. They're against
nuclear energy. There are good reasons to be
against nuclear energy, but there are good
reasons to be against all of the other things. They
are in favor of solar energy, but most of them don't
know enough arithmetic or have enough interest in
it to go through the necessary arithmetic to show
that in no way is it cost-effective, several times
more than any other source. They're in favor of
wave power. Capital investment for wave power is
so large that the interest on that exceeds the
value of the energy it's got. Wave energy, of
course, is the same thing. Thermal energy from the
ocean isn't unknown. It doesn't look like it's
very large. Wind power sounds fine, to go through
the arithmetic. I want to put in a well in my
backyard with a windmill on it. I find that... It
would cost over $800 to make the well, at least $500
for the windmill. I figure I can get the investment
back in about several hundred years. These are
things that the environmentalists just don't
look at. Now, I don't know anything the
environmentalists are for. They don't provide an
alternative, and that's important.
Can't get away from the automobile and go to horse
and buggy days. A horse requires an acre of land to
be fed. There's not that many acres to take out of
production for things that the humans need to feed
the horses to the equivalent power. I'm sorry it's
that way. I wish the environmentalists were more
knowledgeable so that they could be a help instead
of a problem. They're part of the problem. And
there seems to be no way of changing them. Mostly
they're I guess many of them are sociologists or
type-oriented. Maybe they're doing the term
papers or something, but they don't know. They
don't try to go through the arithmetic
themselves. That's my opinion. Then the issue of
ocean pollution, since you've always been
involved in sediments and those kinds of things,
do you consider that dangerous? No. The only place
where the pollution... as dangerous as in
enclosed bays, such as Buzzards Bay here, the oil
spill is here, or in some other bays. In fact, there
are lots of bays in Louisiana, as you know. But the
damage from attributed oil spill there is
negligible compared to the damage from a
hurricane. Absolutely negligible. The oil
that's lost in the ocean every year is so small it'd
make a layer eight one-thousandths of a micron
thick. if it were spreading that is not spreading
if you took all the oil that exists that hasn't been
recovered the estimated resources anyway and
dumped it on the ocean all it wanted to make a layer
one millimeter thick there's no way the ocean is
going to be changed into an ocean of oil no way now to
carry this a little bit farther i saw when i'm out to
sea i look for tar balls and have the The crew,
helmsmen, people on the bridge also keep a record.
They don't find enough to bother with, but we found
a couple of them, and both of these are ones where
Gulf Africa, that is. Both these are ones where I
picked up a dip net to put some in a bucket to bring it
back here to see whether it was tank washings or
natural. It turned out to be tank washings. But the
main thing of interest there is that all the little
tar lumps are covered with or contained. The young
tar lumps don't have much, but the older ones that
are hard
have hydroids and barnacles growing on them,
other things. Eventually they make so much weight
they make the thing sink. In addition, these
tarballs, clusters of them, serve as shelter
for little triggerfish that are the same size and
shape and color as the tarballs, much like
sargassum fish hides under sargassum.
Triggerfish I didn't think was a deep-sea fish,
but here they're taking advantage of an
opportunity. So it seems clear.
that there's a good possibility that the tar balls
have increased the biomass of the ocean instead of
decreased it. Now, the tar and the oil is an organic
product. One can think of it as organic matter, a
return to organic matter, food for the bacteria.
Zobel's whole life work has been learning that
bacteria can destroy,
can destroy, he's credited for finding how
bacteria help make oil, but that's not the case.
Mostly it's how it destroys them. Now,
this means that...
It's getting worse, I guess. This means, of
course, that the bacteria, a little oil may be very
helpful, may be desirable for the bacteria or the
organisms. You can have too much.
Even oxygen is a pollutant when it's too abundant.
It kills the animal too much, if you have too much
oxygen. Trace metals that are present in it are
considered very bad, but on the other hand, trace
metals are necessary for agriculture on land,
probably also on the ocean. The bad oil spills have
been those with refined oil, refined oil, heavy
oil. It doesn't evaporate very fast. Whereas
crude oil, 3 quarters of it evaporates in two or
three days. The ones confined in marshes and so
forth, then of course, it is picked up by various
animals in the marsh. And the presence of trace
elements, of course, Some of the trace elements
are considered carcinogens, because a rat fed on
them will die if he gets on a foot, for example.
Extrapolating for the soft drink sweeteners,
you'd be killed if you drank 300 bottles of Coke
every day for the rest of your life. Not that thing.
But there's a law that says if they exhibit any cars
to affect them, they should be banned. In fact, the
same bureau says give standards for discharge of
water to the ocean. You're not allowed to let the
Mississippi River discharge the ocean.
Is there anything else you'd like to add to the
tape? No, I don't think so. Okay. I thank you then.